README.md, before:

# STM32_Startup_Notes
This repository is mainly for understanding the STM32 board & how to use it, (IDE etc.).

# What is the STM32 board?

The STM32 is a branch of 32-bit microcontroller board that are based on the ARM Cortex-M architecture(more about this on another section). 



# ARM Cortex-M architecture

## Purpose and Design:
* The Cortex-M series was build to be cost-sensitive, energy-efficient for embedded applications.
* It is mainly tuned to be used for microcontrollers such as the STM32

## Features:
* Cortex-M cores use a 32-bit RISC(Reduce Instruction Set Computing) architectrure. This essentially simplifies the design of the processors and makes its execution more efficient.
* Low Power Consumption
* Cortex-M processors come with built-in debugging features, this includes hardware breakpoints etc.

## Cortex-M Series Varients:
The STM32 has different neucleo boards, this includes the F-0 and F-4 series, the main difference is that the F-0(STM32F0) uses the ARM Cortex-M0 processor and the F-4(STM32F4) uses the ARM Cortex-M4 processor.

### Cortex-M0
* This would be the simplest and smallest of the Cortex-M series, which is ideal for basic control tasks
### Cortex-M3
* Optimisation done to provide a balance between performace and power effeciency, its often used in more complex embedded applications.
### Cortex-M4
* Here is where Digital Signal Processing instructions is added, which is useful for audio processing(signal sampling etc.), motor control and more. Essentially this would be used mainly for robotics, mechatronics etc.



## Registers and Memory:
Like most processors, the Cortex-M processors have a simple register structure, with 16 registers(including general purpose registers (R0-R12)). The Link Register(LR), the Program Counter(Counter) and a Stack Pointer(SP).
### Link Register:

### Program Counter: 

### Stack Pointer:

Commit message:

added PC, Stack Pointer etc to readme

README.md, after:

# STM32_Startup_Notes
This repository is mainly for understanding the STM32 board & how to use it, (IDE etc.).

# What is the STM32 board?

The STM32 is a branch of 32-bit microcontroller board that are based on the ARM Cortex-M architecture(more about this on another section). 



# ARM Cortex-M architecture

## Purpose and Design:
* The Cortex-M series was build to be cost-sensitive, energy-efficient for embedded applications.
* It is mainly tuned to be used for microcontrollers such as the STM32

## Features:
* Cortex-M cores use a 32-bit RISC(Reduce Instruction Set Computing) architectrure. This essentially simplifies the design of the processors and makes its execution more efficient.
* Low Power Consumption
* Cortex-M processors come with built-in debugging features, this includes hardware breakpoints etc.

## Cortex-M Series Varients:
The STM32 has different neucleo boards, this includes the F-0 and F-4 series, the main difference is that the F-0(STM32F0) uses the ARM Cortex-M0 processor and the F-4(STM32F4) uses the ARM Cortex-M4 processor.

### Cortex-M0
* This would be the simplest and smallest of the Cortex-M series, which is ideal for basic control tasks
### Cortex-M3
* Optimisation done to provide a balance between performace and power effeciency, its often used in more complex embedded applications.
### Cortex-M4
* Here is where Digital Signal Processing instructions is added, which is useful for audio processing(signal sampling etc.), motor control and more. Essentially this would be used mainly for robotics, mechatronics etc.



## Registers and Memory:
Like most processors, the Cortex-M processors have a simple register structure, with 16 registers(including general purpose registers (R0-R12)). The Link Register(LR), the Program Counter(Counter) and a Stack Pointer(SP). Registers are storage locations that hold data or memory addresses.
### Link Register:
The link register is used for holding the return address when calling a function or subroutine(Assembly).
### Program Counter: 
The Program Counter is used to track the memory address of the next intruction to be executed in a program. Essentially, this could be thought of as the different steps in a recipe.
### Stack Pointer:
The Stack Pointer is used to store the memory address of the last data element added to the stack or, the first available address in the stack.
